Version 1.2

Update notes:
- Added Shotgun I-Form Slot (It's like a pistol formation, but at Shotgun depth)

- Tinkered with Wasp route to allow for a crisper cut.

- Fixed bug with RPO Read Trio Verts out of Shotgun Trips Wk Far

- There are issues with SLWR End Around and Buck Sweep in Shotgun I-Form Slot. Unless you want to get scoop 'n score'd, DO NOT RUN THESE PLAYS. I am working on it.

Note: You may get a warning that the mod was made with a previous version. Ignore this; it is FULLY compatible with any version of Madden.
Note 2: This mod is completely compatible with any other mod that does not alter customplaybooks.db.
Note 3: This mod WILL conflict with Sabo's Revival mod. Can be worked through by simply opening Sabo's mod in Frosty Editor and replacing customplaybooks.db with mine.

Enjoy!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version 1.1

Update notes:
- Added Shotgun Trips Wk Far (wide split trips formation)

- Added numerous new pass plays and routes to Shotgun Trips Wk Far and Shotgun Spread Offset Wk

- Added Jet Chip Wasp to Shotgun Trips Wk Far (I was first, EA!)

Note: You may get a warning that the mod was made with a previous version. Ignore this; it is FULLY compatible.
Note 2: To add, this mod is completely compatible with any other mod that does not alter customplaybooks.db.
Note 3: Reports are that there is a conflict with this mod and Sabo's Revival mod. Can be worked through by simply replacing the customplaybooks.db with mine.

Enjoy!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version 1.0

Update notes:
- Added Shotgun Wing Offset Wk

- Added Shotgun Quad Backfield

- Added Shotgun 4WR Wk Far (Same as 4WR Wk, but with wider splits)

- Most motion routes have been repurposed to be MUCH, MUCH smoother. I'm still working on a few more.

- Numerous broken plays (reads on the wrong side of the field, receiver icons missing, etc.) have been fixed

Known issues:
- Pistol Tackle Over has some broken plays in it.

- Pistol Six Shooter Trick Speed Option does not work.

- Pistol Flexbone motions are a little clunky.

- Wildcat Tackle Over Hippo’s RPO Flat play is clunky.

- Shotgun Wing Offset Wk’s Mtn QB Slot Option is broken. The play itself works, but the option receiver takes a bad route.

- Shotgun Wildebeest is not finished. The pass plays are awful; please don't use them. The run plays are good to go.

- For some formations/plays, flipping the formation causes issues. I'm working on a fix for this.


---
If you notice any broken plays, find me on Discord (ConditionZeroOne) and send me a DM with the formation, play and issue. I'll do my best to fix it and reupload within a day! Same goes with pre-snap motions. If you see an awkward one and want to help, send me the same stuff with a description on what it's doing awkwardly.

Remember, for best use, set your depth charts properly. HB1, 3rd Down Back and Power Back should be your best HB no matter what. SLWR needs to be your fastest, shiftiest player. QB2 needs to be your fastest QB. If your fastest QB is also your best, use an editor to slot a WR or something into your QB2.

The focus of the next update is more bug patching and incorporating some newer plays into more formations. Also a heightened focus on the passing game.



Installation Instructions (very easy):

--- Frosty Editor ---

1. Open Frosty Editor.
2. In the toolbar, select Madden > Legacy Viewer
3. In the search bar, type "customplaybooks" (no quotes).
4. Navigate to common > database > playbooks > customplaybooks.
5. In the box below, where it shows a customplaybooks file (type DB), right click on it and select "Import".
6. Navigate to the saved customplaybooks.db that you downloaded from me and select "Open".
7. Launch the game!

Or, if you're already using other mods, simply open Frosty Mod Manager and use the included fbmod.

There should be no conflicts with existing mods so long as the other mods don't modify customplaybooks.db. If you use a custom playbook, I recommend making a new one from scratch to use solely with this mod.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Miscellaneous Notes:

- This mod replaces your customplaybook.db file. What that means is that when you go build a custom playbook within the game, you have an arsenal of new, created formations and plays to choose from. In order to do this, other formations had to be replaced. I did my best to replace the formations that kinda sucked with the ones I made, so sorry if your favorite formation got canned.

- This is the full initial release! In the beta, many plays were broken or unusable, and it made overall gameplay difficult. In this version, almost everything works as intended. There may be a few broken plays left that I haven’t found yet. If you notice any, please hit me up on Discord (ConditionZeroOne) and send me a DM with the formation, play and issue. I’ll do my best to fix it within the day.

- I invite anybody downloading this to please check out the Madden Modding Community discord and see us at #playbook-modding if you have any questions or feel like diving into this yourself.

- If you want to use this as a base for anything, have at it. I don't even care if you credit me or not; this is just a fun project for me and me alone. I'm just releasing it because it ended up being pretty cool and someone else may enjoy it as well. If you see broken stuff and want to fix it on your own, go for it. If you want to add to it, have at it. To reiterate: This is for me. If you guys love it, that’s great and you can make it into whatever you want.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some gameplay notes:

- The playart is wrong on ~90% of plays because a lot of PSALs (the player-specific play assignment) are entirely custom, so they don't have art associated with it. I don't feel like going into Photoshop and drawing it out because, again, this was really just for me to begin with. You can select plays just fine by reading the play names, which are descriptive enough. At this point, I don't intend to add art to the playbook. I have over 500 custom plays; the way to do it is tedious and the process would be painstakingly slow.

- When adding the plays to your custom playbook through the menu, the formation names will appear but the play names will not be changed. Don't worry; in game, the play names will be the right names. Just add every play from the custom formations. Almost all of the plays coincide with each other as “setup” plays. They're all pretty damn good plays.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


List of new formations:

Shotgun A11 QB1 Duo Falcon
Shotgun A11 QB1 Duo Wall
Shotgun A11 QB1 Spear
Shotgun A11 QB2 Duo Falcon
Shotgun A11 QB2 Duo Wall
Shotgun Diamond
Shotgun Double Back Stack
Shotgun Empty 5WR Trey
Shotgun Empty Triple Stack Tight
Shotgun Empty Wide Dbl Stack
Shotgun Fight Song
Shotgun Heavy Offset Wk
Shotgun Quads Diamond
Shotgun Quad Backfield
Shotgun Split Strong Offset
Shotgun Spread 4WR Slot Wing
Shotgun Spread 4WR T-Out
Shotgun Spread 4WR Wk
Shotgun Spread 4WR Wk Far
Shotgun Spread Offset Wk
Shotgun Spread Wingback
Shotgun Stack Wk Deep Slots
Shotgun T Over Trio Backfield
Shotgun Triple Stack Weak Offset
Shotgun Trips Offset Wk
Shotgun Twin Backs Offset
Shotgun Wildebeest
Shotgun Wing Offset Wk
Pistol Flexbone
Pistol Six Shooter Trick
Pistol Tackle Over Deep
Power I Diamond
Wildcat Tackle Over Hippo
Kickoff (college style with more players to the left of the ball)

All of these formations are loaded with custom plays. Some are unique, but many are repeated plays across multiple formations. Some formations have original plays left in them, but most of the plays you'll find are custom to the core. It's rather run-heavy with most of the passes being designed particularly for one or two receivers only. Again, this is a college/HS focused book. It works best with a QB that can be somewhat mobile (at least mid 80s speed), but can be run with a pocket passer and some adjustments. Some of the plays are pretty cheesy, so you have been warned. There's just some limitations that the Madden AI has for this kind of stuff, especially with the A11 formations. Again, this is a book for fun, so have fun with it. For best results, set your slot receiver to be a shifty, speedy guy. Use a running back there if you have to. Also, set your QB2 to be a fast QB if you want to roll with the A11 sets.

If you have any questions about the book, post it up in #playbook-modding in the Madden Modding Community Discord!

Lastly, a super huge thanks to everyone in the #playbook-modding channel! Particularly Morphy, for the kickass program and tireless work he spent on that and helping my dumbass out. Sabo, for also helping me and leaving quite a bit of resources to follow and look back on. And last but not least, scottm0351 for walking me through the first play I ever did and also answering more than a few questions I had about the whole process. And finally, anybody else who helped me out that I may have forgotten.

Enjoy.
- CZO
